How To Host a Conference on Google Hangouts on Air
==============

## Setup

1. Everyone participating in the conference must have a [Google
Plus](https://plus.google.com) account. Sign up! If a participant uses
Gmail already, then they have an account.

2. You must specify one person as the technical director (TD). This
person will initiate the conference and run the show as it
progresses. The TD can also have the title of Director of Information
Technology, if that helps.

3. You must specify one person as the Moderator who will introduce the
conference and introduce each speaker. The Moderator and the TD should
not be the same person.

4. Everyone participating in the conference must add the TD to their
circles. Similarly, the TD must add everyone to his/her circle.

5. You can great a [Google+
Event](http://www.google.com/+/learnmore/events/) page to announce the
event (date, time, etc.). People can sign up on the Google Event page
(if they have a Google Plus account) so you can keep track of how many
people are interested. Also, you can email everyone on the invitation
list information about the conference (but I would suggest using this
feature sparingly).

6. Every participant in the conference must download and install the
[Google Hangouts
plugin](https://www.google.com/tools/dlpage/hangoutplugin).

7. Announce a hashtag on [Twitter](http://twitter.com). If you want to
get discussion going early, start a Twitter hashtag and announce
it. You can use the hashtag later to take questions (optional).


## Pre-Conference Preparation

1. Test run Google Hangouts on Air. Get some friends together and
simulate the conference. This will give you a chance to iron out some
bugs and see if you really know how to work things.

2. For each speaker in the conference, try to initiate a Google
Hangout with each of them individually. You can use this as an
opportunity to get to know them (especially if you haven’t met), tell
them what you expect from them, and how the conference will operate.

3. Find out which speakers will be using slides. Slides can be
presented using the screenshare feature in Google hangouts but it's
not always obvious how this works. Practice it so that each speaker
using slides knows exactly how to get it to work. That way during the
conference there isn't a long delay.


## Conference Day!

1. The TD should initiate the Google Hangout on Air about 20 to 30
minutes before the actual start time. This gives you a little
breathing room to make sure the Internet is, you know, working. In
order to start the Hangout you need to invite someone. At this point,
simply invite the person who is the Moderator.

2. Once the Google Hangout on Air is initiated, you will get the
YouTube link as well as the embed code. At this point you are NOT
broadcasting so don't worry!

3. Put the YouTube link on the Google+ Events page (if you have one) as
the "website URL". Use the embed code wherever you want to embed the
video live stream (like on your blog).

4. Start inviting the speakers to the Hangout. You can do this from
the Hangouts on Air interface.

5. Once everyone has logged in, test that everyone can speak and hear
everyone else. Check that there's on weird feedback or other audio
problem.


## Running the Conference

1. The TD or the moderator should open the conference and welcome
everyone. The TD should click on the screen of whomever is
speaking. Only the TD can control which face is appearing in the large
screen for the live stream.

2. The moderator should then introduce the first speaker and then let
him/her speak.

3. The moderator (or another person) should monitor the Twitter
hashtag to see if questions come up. If there are few questions, you
might want to have a prepared set of questions for all the speakers.

4. While the speaker is speaking, the moderator can use the chat
window on the side to indicate to the speaker how many minutes they
have left. It’s good to give them 5 minutes, 2 minutes, 1 minute, and
“time’s up”. This works if the presenter is NOT using slides via
screenshare.

5. If a presenter is using slides via screenshare, then they will not
see the chat window. You can use a direct google gchat to try and
communicate with them.  Once the first speaker is finished, the
moderator should introduce the next speaker and continue through with
the rest of the speakers.
